Alright, well here's my motorized bike project.
It was a 12 speed originally.
Picked it up at the Salvation Army Store for
about 10 bucks, as it came.
And there's the little 66cc, little 2 stroke
engine.
Got it off eBay.
And I made a few modifications.
One, I dropped down to a smaller, I believe,
if I remember right, that was a 36 tooth front
chain ring.
And I had to replace the rear cassette and
I ended up having to replace the whole rear
wheel assembly and everything.
Because that original chain tensioner that
comes with this kit is an absolute piece of
crap.
So I got this whole new wheel.
And I also got the hub and sprocket assembly.
I think it was from Pirate Cycles.
And it's the 40 tooth sprocket.
And there's my own home made chain tensioner.
If you've got a welder, these are pretty easy
to make.
There's really nothing to it.
Just a pivot point down there at the bottom
with a brass bushing.
I got that idler sprocket, I think it was
Tractor Supply Company.
Made a little arm.
Got a little spring, and works great.
Keeps the chain nice and tight.
And I did upgrade to the #40 chain.
I got rid of that one that came with.
That one actually broke on me.
So, couple of other little upgrades I made
were the NGK spark plug.
And also this MSD plug in the garage so I
swapped that in.
Upgraded some of the hardware here on the
side covers.
Not all of it, but a lot of it.
Here at the intake and the exhaust.
Got rid of the studs and just got allen head
bolts.
And you can see it does have a boost bottle.
That's another little home made boost bottle.
I believe that one, the total volume of the
little bottle plus the tube, I believe was
60cc.
So it's just under the displacement of the
engine, which was 66cc's.
You can see I made little, I had to get in
there and make some solid mounts.
The little running it around the frame of
the bike, it just allowed too much flex.
And the engine would always dive over.
And so that would throw the chain line out
of whack, and then my chain would bind up,
or my chain would jump off, so I just made
some solid mounts.
You can see, there's the rear one, there's
the front one.
And that was about it.
And I'll get this thing fired up and let you
hear it running.
Still haven't been able to get it to idle
correctly.
So, anyway I've been working on that.
Tell you the truth, I think I'm going to swap
this out and put a 4 stroke engine in this.
A little 3 horsepower.
Now that I've got all this, this whole setup
back here.
This hub adapter and sprocket.
And I'll just get like a 3 horsepower, 4 stroke
engine with a centrifugal clutch.
Throw that on there, and see how that goes.
But, all in all, it's pretty alright.
The biggest improvement in performance comes
from swapping out to one of these NGK plugs.
Everything else that I did, the new wire,
the boost bottle, it kinda helped.
But the most noticeable, sort of seat of the
pants, improvement in power came from this
plug.
Much easier to start, ran a lot cleaner, ran
a lot smoother.
So if you've got one of these engines, I highly
recommend putting in one of these NGK plugs.
Also got the little o-ring here between the
intake tube and the carburetor.
So that's it, pretty fun little project.
But I'm probably going to improve on it a
little bit more.
And I'll keep filming.
Thanks for watching!